# differential-value-iteration
Experiments with new and existing average-reward planning algorithms.

## Project Status
This project has been very useful for our group to collaborate and debug our
intuitions. The current status of the project (as of August 2022) is to
save our progress to this project in a somewhat incomplete state. See our report
for details!

# Prerequisites
- Install JAX https://github.com/google/jax#installation

Possibly just:
```
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install --upgrade "jax[cpu]"
```
# Installation
- Clone the github repository to a local directory.

## Developer
- From the root of the repo, `python setup.py develop --user`

This will install into your user folder.

To check if it is working, you should be able to execute an experiment.

Eg. `python main.py src/differential_value_iteration/experiments/dvi_async_vs_sync.py'

You can uninstall:`python setup.py develop --uninstall`

To run the tests, from the root of the repo (after running setup.py):

`python -m unittest discover src/differential_value_iteration -p '*_test.py'`

## User
- From the root of the repo, `python setup.py install`

# Run Some Experiments

## Control Benchmarks
Run RVI, DVI, and MDVI Control algorithms on Micro, GARET, and Queueing MDPs to
see their required iterations to convergence, clock time, policies, and even
sample returns from those policies.


`python src/differential_value_iteration/experiments/control_benchmark.py`

This script is very configurable with flags to turn on/off algorithms, MDPs, and
other experimental parameters. Or hack the source file!

## DVI Async vs Sync
Plots that we included related to these experiments in our report can be
generated by running:

`python src/differential_value_iteration/experiments/dvi_async_vs_sync.py`

This script is also quite configurable. It will write plots to [./plots](plots).
Results are pre-generated there for reference.

## Extracting Markov Reward Processes from Markov Decision Processes
To run an example of applying a policy to one of our Markov Decision Processes 
(control) in order to generate a Markov Reward Process (prediction), try:

`python src/differential_value_iteration/experiments/specific_policy_convergence.py`


# Get In Touch
Please send a message to @abhisheknaik96 or @btanner to get in touch!

Or feel free to create an issue or send a pull request.
